"NEW YORK —  Facebook's No. 2 executive says the company should have conducted an audit after learning that a political consultancy improperly accessed user data nearly three years ago."
"Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg told NBC's \"Today\" show that at the time, Facebook received legal assurances that Cambridge Analytica had deleted the improperly obtained information."
"\"What we didn't do is the next step of an audit and we're trying to that now,\" she said."
"The audit of Cambridge Analytica is on hold, in deference to a U.K. investigation. But Facebook has been conducting a broader review of its own practices and how other third-party apps use data."
"In addition, Facebook announced on Friday that it will require advertisers who want to run not just political ads, but also or so called \"issue ads\" —which may not endorse specific candidates or parties but discuss political topics— to be verified."
"Facebook is trying to strengthen its system ahead of this year's U.S. midterm elections as well as upcoming elections around the world. Facebook has already required political ads to verify who is paying for them and where the advertiser is located. The issue ads requirement is new."
"Facebook will also require the administrators of pages with a \"large number\" of followers to also be verified. The company did not say what this number would be. The move is intended to clamp down on fake pages and accounts that were used to disrupt the 2016 presidential elections in the U.S."
"Facebook says page administrators and advertisers will be verified by being asked to provide a government-issued ID. To verify addresses, it will mail a postcard with a unique code that the recipient can then enter into Facebook. This is similar to how Airbnb and other services verify addresses."
"The company is facing a global backlash over the improper data-sharing scandal. Hearings over the issue are scheduled in the U.S., and the European Union is considering what actions to take against the company."
"Sandberg also told NBC that if users were able to opt out of being shown ads, \"at the highest level, that would be a paid product.\" This does not mean the company is planning to let users do this. Zuckerberg has made similar statements in the past, but has added that Facebook remains committed to offering a free service paid for by advertising."
"Facebook users can opt out of seeing targeted ads, but can't shut off ads altogether. Neither can they opt entirely out of Facebook's data collection."
"Sandberg gave several interviews this week as Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg prepares to testify before Congress next week, where the issue of elections meddling is almost certain to come up."
"Facebook is also facing an investigation by the Federal Trade Commission in what's become its worst privacy crisis in its 14-year history."
"It started with revelations that Cambridge Analytica, a data-mining firm, improperly accessed the private information of tens of millions of users to try to influence elections around the world. Over the past three weeks the scandal continued to spiral. For one, Facebook executives took nearly five days to respond to the Cambridge Analytica reports."
"Then, some users who logged in to Facebook through Android devices discovered that Facebook had been collecting information about phone calls they made and text messages they sent. Facebook also acknowledged this week that nearly all of its 2.2 billion users may have had their public data scraped by \"malicious actors\" it did not name."
"NEW YORK —  Anyone who's been wondering if their private Facebook data might have been swept up in the Cambridge Analytica scandal will soon get their first clues."
"Starting Monday, all 2.2 billion Facebook users will receive a notice on their feeds, titled \"Protecting Your Information,\" with a link to see what apps they use and what information they have shared with those apps. If they want, they can shut off apps individually or turn off third-party access to their apps completely."
"In addition, the 87 million users who might have had their data shared with Cambridge Analytica will get a more detailed message informing them of this. Facebook says most of the affected users (more than 70 million) are in the U.S., though there are over a million each in the Philippines, Indonesia and the U.K."
"Reeling from its worst privacy crisis in history — allegations that this Trump-affiliated data mining firm may have used ill-gotten user data to try to influence elections — Facebook is in full damage-control mode, with CEO Mark Zuckerberg acknowledging he's made a  \"huge mistake\" in failing to take a broad enough view of what Facebook's responsibility is in the world. He's set to testify before Congress next week."
"Cambridge Analytica whistleblower Christopher Wylie previously estimated that more than 50 million people were compromised by a personality quiz that collected data from users and their friends."
"That Facebook app, called \"This is Your Digital Life,\" was a personality quiz created in 2014 by an academic researcher named Aleksander Kogan, who paid about 270,000 people to take it. The app vacuumed up not just the data of the people who took it, but also — thanks to Facebook's loose restrictions — data from their friends, too, including details that they hadn't intended to share publicly."
"Facebook later limited the data apps can access, but it was too late in this case."
"Zuckerberg said Facebook came up with the 87 million figure by calculating the maximum number of friends that users could have had while Kogan's app was collecting data. The company doesn't have logs going back that far, he said, so it can't know exactly how many people may have been affected."
"Cambridge Analytica said in a statement Wednesday that it had data for only 30 million people."
"We’re not taking scheduled flights into space, and we’re certainly not booking them on the long-bankrupt Pan Am airlines. But much about Stanley Kubrick’s “2001: A Space Odyssey,” which was released 50 years ago this week, has proved prophetic. In our era of Siri and Alexa, that particularly applies to the film’s forecast that we would speak with computers powered by some form of artificial intelligence. (In the movie, Pan Am provided shuttle service to a space station stop on the way to the moon.)"
"Many Canadians know that Douglas Rain, the acclaimed actor who was born in Winnipeg and who became closely associated with the Stratford Festival, provided the voice for HAL 9000, the film’s computer, in a performance that some reviewers found to be a highlight of the film."
"Gerry Flahive, a filmmaker from Toronto, has written a fascinating article for The Times about how Mr. Rain became HAL. Mr. Kubrick was taken with his work on a National Film Board of Canada production, “Universe,” that the director particularly liked. But also high on the list was Mr. Rain’s Standard Canadian English accent, which non-Canadians often find hard to place."
"Mr. Flahive was a documentary producer at the film board for 33 years. His credits include “A Short History of The High Rise,”  which was a joint production with the The New York Times Op-Docs."
"Here’s a condensed and edited version of a conversation we had this week:"
"Do you remember watching “2001” at the time of its release?"
"I was 11 when I saw it at the Glendale Theatre in Toronto in Cinerama and it just completely blew my mind. And that’s what got me interested in filmmaking. It almost seemed like a documentary to me. It was such a realistic depiction of the future."
"As I was getting ready to leave the film board, I thought that this is an interest of mine and that I could dig a bit deeper into it and so I wrote to Douglas Rain."
"Did the film have a similar effect on Mr. Rain?"
"It was just a job for him. It doesn’t really mean anything to him and he’s never seen the film."
"He was hired to do the narration for what was going to be an elaborate prologue to “2001.” They filmed interviews with all these amazing scientists and thinkers to set up the premise for the film and explain the context. But Kubrick stripped it away and didn’t use the narration he’d hired Rain to do."
"I think if Kubrick had kept all of the explanatory things it wouldn’t it wouldn’t be the classic that it is."
"So how did Mr. Rain move from there to becoming HAL?"
"It was going to be Martin Balsam’s voice. And even before that it was going to be a female voice. HAL was going to be an Athena."
"So the voice was probably just a combination of circumstance and a gut choice by Kubrick. He literally said to Rain, ‘I’m not happy what I have in the can,’ meaning the Martin Balsam recording that had been done a year before. ‘Would you like to play the computer?’ And then, in a day and a half, it was done."
"When I spoke to a linguist he said absolutely that HAL does not have a mid-Atlantic accent as Kubrick kind of thought. It’s Standard Canadian English."
"Why is Mr. Rain indifferent toward the film?"
"Even though it was done quickly and I don’t think Rain had a very good time doing it, it was fantastic combination of Rain’s performance, Kubrick’s decision to use that voice and to edit it in a way that really brought that character to life."
"But I’m sure if I were Rain I wouldn’t want it to define my career. It would be like Alec Guinness being known just for Obi-Wan Kenobi and nothing else."
"Read: The Story of a Voice: HAL in ‘2001’ Wasn’t Always So Eerily Calm"
"The disclosures surrounding what Cambridge Analytica did with Facebook users’ data continue. This week the company estimated that the political consulting firm connected to President Trump’s campaign improperly used data from about 87 million accounts, including more than 600,000 in Canada. Its chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, is scheduled to explain what happened next week to Congress."
"A large number of you send thoughtful replies to my questions last week about how the misuse, which was initially revealed by Canadian whistle-blower Christopher Wylie, has changed the way you use Facebook. Here are a few of the highlights:"
"I was pretty confident that an organization such as Facebook, with so much success and resources, would act smart and responsible. That is not the case we learned — not at all! I am shocked and I will surely do something."
"If there’s a lesson to be learned from this, it is that on the long run, free stuff is fishy!"
"—Guy Pierre Poulin, St. Sauveur, Quebec"
"I was a relatively early adopter to Facebook back in early-2005 as an undergraduate student at the University of Alberta. "
"Since 2012 I have deleted as much data associated with my profile as possible and have not logged on or messaged anybody through Facebook."
"I had privacy concerns and it was a source of distraction and agitation. But I was also perceiving others in my peer group as moving swiftly ahead with their lives, in all aspects, whereas I had felt inadequate."
"Quitting Facebook about six years ago has been very positive decision. It’s allowed for more focused “deep work” and to be more engaged fully with people."
"—Ravendra Naidoo, Ottawa"
"The last few weeks of angst about Facebook has not changed my mind about continuing to use social media. It is the way I stay in touch with others with like interests around the globe. I do not put anything on my FB page that is not for public consumption. I limit those who can view my information and posts to friends. I unfriend anyone who posts disgusting things and stop following people who post too much. My social media account is my enjoyment and pleasure. Why would I give that up?"
"—Louann Hansen, Alberta"
"I suspended my Facebook account a few months ago and never looked back. I really felt it was designed to be addictive and my brain couldn’t resist. I still think about friends who I may have known a bit more about if I had stayed. But those thoughts also prompt me to reconnect with them in a more active way, like email, phone or in person. I can no longer vent about politics by posting. So I now realize that any anger I feel should either be ignored or focused on something more active than pressing “post.”"
"Suspending Facebook made me much happier right away, an instant gratification that no social media activity ever gave me!"
"—Tim Wilbur, Toronto"
"Although the weather doesn’t seem much like it in many regions, it is April, and time for the latest post from Watching, The Times’s guide to viewing, tailored for Netflix users in Canada. The recommendations include “The Florida Project,” “‘Monty Python and the Holy Grail” and “‘Lost in Space,” a Netflix revival of the 1960s television series. As always, please be aware that Netflix sometimes changes its mind about what it will show in Canada after Watching has compiled its viewers’ guide."
"Read: The Best Movies and TV Shows New to Netflix Canada in April"
"And for those of you who are sticking with Facebook and its subsidiaries, The Times’s new gender initiative is now on Instagram."
"In Opinion, Jesse Brown, the host of a podcast about the Canadian media, argues that Jordan Peterson, the University of Toronto psychologist and author who is seen as leading a challenge against political correctness and activism, is much more typical of Canadians than Prime Minister Justin Trudeau."
"Subscribe: iTunes | Google Play Music"
"It’s not often that a debut memoir debuts at No. 1 on The Times’s best-seller list. Tara Westover’s  “Educated” traces her exceptional life, starting with her early years as the youngest of seven children in a survivalist family in southeastern Idaho. Her father was deeply suspicious of all participants in mainstream life, including doctors and teachers. Her mother used homemade herbal remedies for even the most gruesome injuries suffered by her children, like third-degree burns."
"“There was a lot of beauty in my childhoood,” Westover says on this week’s podcast. “It was a quality of my childhood that everything had these two sides. Even though things could be really beautiful and peaceful one moment, they could also be a bit chaotic or maybe terrifying in another.”"
"Most remarkably, Westover, having never stepped into a classroom until she was 17, studied at Brigham Young University, Harvard and Cambridge, from which she received a Ph.D. in history. “We’d had books in my house growing up,” she says on the podcast, “but we had never had anything like lectures. I had never written an essay for my mother. I had never taken an exam. Because I was working a lot as a kid, I just hadn’t elected to read that much.” When she arrived at B.Y.U., she had yet to hear of the Holocaust."
"Also on this week’s podcast, Mark Weinberg talks about “Movie Nights With the Reagans: A Memoir”; and Dwight Garner, Parul Sehgal and Jennifer Szalai discuss the books they’ve recently reviewed. Pamela Paul is the host."
"We would love to hear your thoughts about this episode, and about the Book Review’s podcast in general. You can send them to books@nytimes.com."
"From a desktop or laptop, you can listen by pressing play on the button above."
"Or if you’re on a mobile device, the instructions below will help you find and subscribe to the series."
"1. Open your podcast app. It’s a pre-loaded app called “Podcasts” with a purple icon."
"2. Search for the series. Tap on the “search” magnifying glass icon at the bottom of the screen, type in “Inside The New York Times Book Review” and select it from the list of results."
"3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, tap on the “subscribe” button to have new episodes sent to your phone free. You may want to adjust your notifications to be alerted when a new episode arrives."
"4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, just tap on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you’ll be able to stream the episode."
"On your Android phone or tablet:"
"1. Open your podcast app. It’s a pre-loaded app called “Play Music” with an orange-and-yellow icon."
"2. Search for the series. Click on the magnifying glass icon at the top of the screen, search for the name of the series, and select it from the list of results. You might have to scroll down to find the “Podcasts” search results."
"3. Subscribe. Once on the series page, click on the word “subscribe” to have new episodes sent to your phone for free."
"4. Or just sample. If you would rather listen to an episode or two before deciding to subscribe, just click on the episode title from the list on the series page. If you have an internet connection, you’ll be able to stream the episode."
"BRUSSELS —  Facebook has confirmed that the data of 2.7 million EU citizens were among those improperly used by political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, the EU executive said on Friday."
"The European Commission said it received a letter from the social media giant late on Thursday and that it would press for more details, piling pressure on the firm that has lost more than $100 billion in market value in the last 10 days."
"\"Facebook confirmed to us that the data of overall up to 2.7 million Europeans or people in the EU to be more precise may have been improperly shared with Cambridge Analytica,\" a Commission spokesman said."
"\"The letter also explains the steps Facebook has taken in response since.\""
"(Reporting by Alissa de Carbonnel @AdeCar; Editing by Robert-Jan Bartunek)"
"LONDON —  Facebook's Chief Technology Officer Mike Schroepfer will answer questions from British lawmakers on the social media giant's recent data scandal on April 26, a parliamentary  committee said on Friday."
"Facebook Inc said on Wednesday the personal information of up to 87 million users, mostly in the United States, may have been improperly shared with political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, up from a previous estimates."
"Lawmakers had asked Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg or another senior Facebook executive to explain to a parliamentary committee how the data got into Cambridge Analytica's hands. Committee chair Damien Collins has said it was \"astonishing\" that Zuckerberg was not prepared to answer questions himself."
"The Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Committee said it would also hear from former Cambridge Analytica chief executive Alexander Nix on April 18, his second hearing, as well as from Aleksandr Kogan, a research associate at the centre of the scandal, on 24 April."
"(Reporting by Alistair Smout; editing by Stephen Addison)"
"JAKARTA, Indonesia —  Indonesian government said Friday it is investigating Facebook over the privacy breach of its Indonesian users."
"The Ministry of Communications and Information Technology said in a statement that it had asked the National Police chief to investigate possible violations of Indonesia's privacy law a day after Facebook announced that personal data of more than 1 million Indonesians might have been exposed by political consultant Cambridge Analytica."
"It said Facebook representatives in Indonesia could face up to 12 years in prison and a fine of $871,000, if convicted."
"The ministry summoned the representatives late Thursday to deliver a warning letter."
"Communications Minister Rudiantara told reporters after the meeting that he has asked Facebook to stop its applications that could allow third parties to get users' personal information."
"\"We ask Facebook to provide us their audit results to see how the personal information is used by the Cambridge Analytica,\" said Rudiantara, who like many Indonesians uses a single name."
"Facebook Indonesia Head of Public Policy Ruben Hattari said they will keep cooperating with the Indonesian government."
"\"Our main goal is to secure privacy data of all Facebook users,\" Hattari said after the meeting."
"Indonesia is the world's fourth-largest Facebook user with more than 115 million active members, and nearly 97 percent of them are on mobile devices."
"WASHINGTON —  Investigators on two congressional panels are looking into whether Russia acquired the data of millions of Facebook users and if companies with ties to then-2016 Republican election candidate Donald Trump's campaign played any role in providing it, three sources familiar with the inquiries said."
"On Tuesday, Facebook said it had deleted 70 Facebook accounts, 138 Facebook pages and 65 Instagram accounts that it said were \"controlled\" by the Internet Research Agency (IRA), a  Russian propaganda arm based in St. Petersburg."
"Last September, Facebook disclosed that it had suspended about 470 \"inauthentic accounts\" that it believed were \"likely operated out of Russia\" and had purchased 3,000 ads which \"appeared to focus on amplifying divisive social and political messages.\""
"And on Wednesday, the social media platform said the personal information of up to 87 million users, mostly in the United States, may have been improperly shared with political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, up from a previous news media estimate of more than 50 million. Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg will testify on April 10 and 11 to Congress."
"In an indictment in February, Robert Mueller, the special counsel investigating possible Russian meddling in the 2016 U.S. presidential campaign, charged IRA and 13 Russians with conspiring to interfere in U.S. politics and elections. Moscow denies tampering in U.S. elections and President Trump denies any coordination between his campaign and Russian officials."
"Among the issues investigators on the U.S. Senate Intelligence Committee and Democrats on the House Intelligence Committee are digging into are whether IRA and other Russian organizations used any Facebook data, the sources said, speaking on condition of anonymity. Also, whether the use of such data had any impact on the U.S. election, and how much Facebook data may have been acquired by Russian entities, the sources said."
"Zuckerberg last month disclosed that in 2013, Cambridge University academic Aleksandr Kogan, who ran a company called Global Science Research (GSR), created a personality quiz app that was installed by about 300,000 Facebook users."
"Zuckerberg said that because of the way the Facebook platform worked at the time, this gave Kogan access to data of \"tens of millions\" of friends of users who took the quiz."
"On Wednesday, Mike Schroepfer, Facebook's Chief Technology Officer, acknowledged in a public posting that \"the Facebook information of up to 87 million people - mostly in the US - may have been improperly shared\" with Cambridge Analytica."
"Zuckerberg said Facebook learned in 2015 that Kogan shared data from his app with Cambridge Analytica. The London-based consulting firm received millions of dollars from the Trump campaign and a political action committee supported by financier Robert Mercer, who supported Trump. Zuckerberg said Kogan \"misused\" Facebook's data."
"Cambridge Analytica said in a statement on Wednesday that it \"did not use any\" data it acquired from Kogan's company in work related to the 2016 U.S. presidential campaign. The firm added that it took legal action against GSR, and that it \"immediately deleted the raw data\" from its server when it learned from Facebook that the data had been \"improperly obtained.\""
"Representative Adam Schiff, the House intelligence committee's top Democrat, sent Kogan a letter requesting correspondence and message traffic on his dealings with Cambridge Analytica and former Trump adviser Steve Bannon, any material related to Russia, and that Kogan agree to an interview."
"Kogan said in an email to Reuters that he knows nothing about Facebook data being obtained by Russia and had never heard of the Internet Research Agency \"until a few weeks ago.\""
"(Reporting By Mark Hosenball; editing by John Walcott and Grant McCool)"
"BRUSSELS —  The European Union said Friday that Facebook has told it that up to 2.7 million people in the 28-nation bloc may have been victim of improper data sharing involving political data-mining firm Cambridge Analytica."
"EU spokesman Christian Wigand said EU Justice Commissioner Vera Jourova will have a telephone call with Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg early next week to address the massive data leaks."
"The EU and Facebook will be looking at what changes the social media giant needs to make to better protect users and how the U.S. company must adapt to new EU data protection rules."
"Wigand said that EU data protection authorities will discuss over the coming days \"a strong coordinated approach\" on how to deal with the Facebook investigation."
"Separately, Italy's competition authority opened an investigation Friday into Facebook for allegedly misleading practices following revelations that the social network sold users' data without consent."
"Authority chairman Giovanni Pitruzzella told Sky News24 that the investigation will focus on Facebook's claims on its home page that the service is free, without revealing that it makes money off users' data."
"The investigation comes as Italian consumer advocate group Codacons prepares a U.S. class action against Facebook on behalf of Italians whose data was mined by Cambridge Analytica. Codacons said just 57 Italians downloaded the Cambridge Analytica app, but that an estimated 214,000 Italians could be affected because the data mined extended to also the users' friends."
"A top Facebook privacy official is scheduled to meet with the authority later this month."
"___"
"This story was earlier corrected to show that the EU call will take place with Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg not with Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg."
